# Learning Curve Analysis (LCA) with Brute Force Method

## Overview 

The scripts contained here run the Learning Curve Analysis sequentially (non-parallelized) and produce results that are standardized and compatible with IMPROVE LCA postprocessing scripts.

## Requirements

* [IMPROVE general environment](https://jdacs4c-improve.github.io/docs/content/INSTALLATION.html)
* An IMPROVE-compliant model and its environment

## Installation and Setup

Create the IMPROVE general environment:

```bash
conda create -n IMPROVE python=3.6
conda activate IMPROVE
pip install improvelib
```

Download the IMPROVE repo containing the workflows:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/JDACS4C-IMPROVE/IMPROVE
```

Download the repo for the model of choice:

```bash
cd <WORKING_DIR>
git clone https://github.com/JDACS4C-IMPROVE/<MODEL>
```

Download the benchmark dataset:
```bash
# Give examples here
```

Create a Conda environment path for the model in the model directory (or location of your choice):

```bash
conda env create -f <MODEL_ENV>.yml -p ./<MODEL_ENV_NAME>/
```


## Parameter Configuration

This workflow uses IMPROVE parameter handling. You should create a config file following the template of `lca_swarm_params.ini` with the parameters appropriate for your experiment. Parameters may also be specified on the command line.

* `input_dir`: Path to benchmark data. 
* `output_dir`: Path to save the LCA results. 
* `lca_splits_dir`: Path to LCA splits, as generated by the LCA splits generator.
* `model_name`: Name of the model as used in scripts (i.e. `<model_name>_preprocess_improve.py`). Note that this is case-sensitive.
* `model_scripts_dir`: Path to the model repository as cloned above. Can be an absolute or relative path.
* `model_environment`: Name of the model environment as created above. Can be a path, or just the name of environment directory if it is located in `model_scripts_dir`.directory if it is located in `model_scripts_dir`.
* `dataset`: Name of the dataset as used in the split names. Note that this is case-sensitive (default: 'CCLE').
* `split_nums`: List of strings of the numbers of splits (default: ['0', '1']).
* `preprocess_args`: Dictionary of additional model preprocess parameters to include, otherwise the defaults in the model's `<MODEL>_params.ini` will be used (default: {}).
* `train_args`: Dictionary of additional model train parameters to include, otherwise the defaults in the model's `<MODEL>_params.ini` will be used (default: {}).
* `infer_args`: Dictionary of additional model infer parameters to include, otherwise the defaults in the model's `<MODEL>_params.ini` will be used (default: {}).


## Usage

Activate the model environment:

```bash
conda activate <PATH/TO/MODEL>/<MODEL_ENV_NAME>
```

Run LCA brute force with your configuration file:

```bash
python lca_bruteforce.py --config <YOUR_CONFIG_FILE>.ini
```

If submitting a job:
```bash
conda activate <MODEL_ENV>
export PYTHONPATH=/YOUR/PATH/TO/IMPROVE
python lca_bruteforce.py --config <YOUR_CONFIG_FILE>.ini
```





## Output

The output will be in the specified `output_dir` with the following structure (with the used dataset and splits):
```
output_dir/
├── infer
│   ├── split_0
│   │   ├── sz_[0]
│   │   │   ├── param_log_file.txt
│   │   │   ├── test_scores.json
│   │   │   └── test_y_data_predicted.csv
│   │   ├── sz_[1]
│   │   ├── ...
│   │   └── sz_[n]
│   ├── split_1
│   ├── ...
│   └── split_9
├── ml_data
│   ├── split_0
│   │   ├── sz_[0]
│   │   │   ├── param_log_file.txt
│   │   │   ├── train_y_data.csv
│   │   │   ├── val_y_data.csv
│   │   │   ├── test_y_data.csv
│   │   │   └── train/val/test x_data, and other files per model
│   │   ├── sz_[1]
│   │   ├── ...
│   │   └── sz_[n]
│   ├── split_1
│   ├── ...
│   └── split_9
└── models
    ├── split_0
    │   ├── sz_[0]
    │   │   ├── param_log_file.txt
    │   │   ├── val_scores.json
    │   │   ├── val_y_data_predicted.csv
    │   │   └── trained model file
    │   ├── sz_[1]
    │   ├── ...
    │   └── sz_[n]
    ├── split_1
    ├── ...
    └── split_9
 ```

 We recommend using the postprocessing script for LCA to aggregate the results. See [here](https://github.com/JDACS4C-IMPROVE/IMPROVE/tree/develop/workflows/lca/postprocess).












